# NBA-Raw-Data-Compiler
Abhijai Singh



Python – MySQL NBA Data Analysis Project



	For this project, I chose to import the xlrd and mysql.connector libraries to aid in the access of xlsx files and export data from Python to MySQL respectively. I then connected the database with the requisite login and host information and then created the database "NBAData". Inside the database I created the table pbp_players_on_court and defined the limits of play_id (char, size 6) and the rest of the 10 players (int, size 10). Following this, 2 definitions, with_index and replace_all provide the functionality to represent an in game player substitution. Next, using xlrd I opened and assigned names to the given xlsx files and in turn assigned worksheets to those respectively. Derived from this is total_rows which i use to span the entirety of the xlsx files from a rows perspective. For testing purposes I limited this number to 80. List definitions follow, allowing me to record different types of data during each iteration of my script. 

	Prompting the use, I offer the two NBA games available for call using gameid as the int variable. Thus initiates the over arching For loop from x to total_rows that accounts for all play_id values. The first condition involves checking that the gameID matches the game the iteration is on. If it doesn't match, the for loop will iterate until a match is found. If a match is found, then three possible conditions await. The first being, if play_eventid == 0 then add said player's player_id to the player_oncourt list. This accounts for the unique situations where starting lineups are being entered into the data. The second condition involves the situation when a substitution is being made. An if and statement is used to first check if the play_eventid == 10 (signifying a sub being made) with the and condition making sure the play_sequence of the next row is not equal to 2 as to prevent any overwriting. Then, using three arguments(list, subbing out player, subbing in player) the replace_all function is called to make the adjustment. The else condition accounts for all plays where no changes are being made to the players on court.

	Outside of the gameid checking condition is the for loop that creates the play_id list, as well as the MySQL output. Due to out of range error messages with the player_oncourt and record lists, I had to create a workaround by copying the problematic lists to a new list and using for loops to .pop the contents of the lists into the INSERT function for export into the MySQL table. After committing to the db, I set record = [], finish the cycle of the overall for loop and iterate x plus 1. The script when finished, delivers a table of data that includes play_id and all the players on the court during that specific play to command line or MySQL table.
